<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML+RDFa 1.0//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/DTD/xhtml-rdfa-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"
      xmlns:owl="http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#"
      xmlns:rdfs ='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#'
      xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type"
          content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
  </head>
<body>  

<h1 about="http://spdx.org/ont" typeof='http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#Ontology' property='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#label'>Software Package Data Exchange (SPDXTM) Specification</h1>

<h2>Rationale</h2>

<h3>Charter</h3>

<p>To create a set of data exchange standards that enable companies and
organizations to share + and component information (metadata) for
software packages and related content with the aim of facilitating
license and other policy compliance.</p>

<h3>Definition</h3>

<p>The Software Package Data Exchange (SPDXTM) specification is a
standard format for communicating the components, licenses and
copyrights associated with a software package. An SPDX file is
associated with a particular software package and contains information
about that package in the SPDX format.</p>

<h3>Why is a common format for data exchange needed?</h3>

<p about="http://spdx.org/ont" property='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#comment'>Companies and organizations (collectively “Organizations”) are widely
using and reusing open source and other software packages. Compliance
with the associated licenses requires a set of analysis activities and
due diligence that each Organization performs independently including:
a manual and/or automated scan of software and identification of
associated licenses followed by manual verification. Software
development teams across the globe use the same open source packages,
but little infrastructure exists to facilitate collaboration on the
analysis or share the results of these analysis activities. As a
result, many groups are performing the same work leading to duplicated
efforts and redundant information being created. The SPDX working
group seeks to create a data exchange format so that information about
software packages and related content, may be collected and shared in
a common format with the goal of saving time and improving data
accuracy.</p>

<h3>What does this specification cover?</h3>

<p>Identification Information: Meta data to associate analysis results with a specific package. This includes a unique identifier that identifies a specific instance of a package and permits correlation to the corresponding SPDX file.</p>

<p>Overview Information: Facts that are common properties of the entire package.</p>

<p>File Specific Information: Facts ( e.g. copyrights, licenses) that are specific to each file included in the package.</p>

<p>Common Licenses: A list of common licenses likely to be encountered and a standardized naming convention for referring to these licenses within an SPDX document. This naming convention will also be the basis for extending this set of common licenses over time.</p>

<p>Evolution Hooks: A set of mechanisms that permit extending the specification in a structured manner under specific future versions of the specification.</p>

<h3>What is not covered in the specification?</h3>

<p>Information that cannot be derived from an inspection (whether manual or using automated tools) of the package to be analyzed.</p>

<p>How the data stored in and SPDX file is used by the recipient. 1.5.3. Any identification of any patent(s) which may or may not relate to the package. 1.5.4. Legal interpretation of the licenses or any compliance actions that might need to be taken.</p>

<h3>Format Requirements</h3>

<ul>
 <li>Must be in a human readable form.</li>
 <li>Must be in a syntax that a software tool can read and write.</li>
 <li>Must be suitable to be checked for syntactic correctness independent of how it was generated (human or tool)</li>
 <li>The SPDX file character set must support UTF-8 encoding. 1.6.5. Must permit automated specification syntax validation.</li>
 <li>Resource Description Framework (RDF) will be used to represent certain semantic information.</li>
</ul>

<h3>RDF Vocabulary</h3>


<div about='http://spdx.org/ont#SPDXDocument' typeof='http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#Class'>
  <h4 property='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#label'>SPDXDocument</h4>
  
  <p property='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#comment'>An SpdxDocument is a collection of license and copyright
information regarding one or more packages and the files contained in
those packages.</p>

  <div rel='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#subClassOf'>
    <div rel='http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#Restriction'>
      <a rel='http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#onProperty' href="http://spdx.org/ont#CreatedBy">CreatedBy</a>
      Minimum cardinality: <span property='http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#minCardinality'>1</span>
    </div>
  </div>
  
</div>

<div about='http://spdx.org/ont#SPDXVersion' typeof='http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#DatatypeProperty'>
  <h4 property='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#label'>SPDXVersion</h4>
  <p>Purpose: <span  property='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#comment'>Provide a reference number that can be used to understand
how to parse and interpret the rest of the file. It will enable both
future changes to the specification and to support backward
compatibility. The version number consists of a Major and Minor
version indicator. The Major field will be incramented when one or
more sections are created, modified or deleted. The Minor field will
be incremented when either only the fields within a section are
modified or standard recognized licenses are added to appendix.</span></p>

  <p>Intent: Here, parties exchanging Identification Information in
accordance with SPDX specification need to provide 100% transparency
as to which SPDX specification such Identification Information is
conforming to.</p>

  <p>Domain: <a rel='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#domain' href='http://spdx.org/ont#SPDXDocument'>SPDXDocument</a></p>

  <p>Range: <a rel='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#range' href='http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#string'>xsd:string</a></p>

  <p about='http://spdx.org/ont#SPDXVersion' typeof='http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#FunctionalProperty'>Cardinality: Mandatory, single instance</p>

  <p>Data Format: SPDX-M.N where: M is Major version number, N is minor version number.</p>

  <p>Example:

    <pre><code>SPDXVersion: SPDX-1.0</code></pre></p>

</div>

<div about='http://spdx.org/ont#CreatedBy' typeof='http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#DatatypeProperty'>
  <h4 property='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#label'>CreatedBy</h4>

  <p>Purpose: <span property='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#comment'>Identify how the meta data information in the SPDX file was generated. If it was generated manually, it should indicate – who did the analysis. If the information in the file was generated with a software tool, the file should indicate an identifier and version for that tool.</span></p>

  <p>Intent: Here, the generation method will assist the reader of the Identification Information in self determining the general reliability/accuracy of the Identification Information.</p>

  <p>Domain: <a rel='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#domain' href='http://spdx.org/ont#SPDXDocument'>SPDXDocument</a></p>

  <p>Range: <a rel='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#range' href='http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#string'>xsd:string</a></p>

  <p>Cardinality: Mandatory, one or more.
  </p>
  
  <p>Data Format: "Person: person name" (with optional email) or "Company: company" (depending on which is accountable) or "Tool: tool identifier - version". If multiple participants in the analysis, then they should be indicated with separate instances.</p>

  <p>Example:
    <pre><code>
CreatedBy: Person: Jane Doe (jane.doe@company.com)
CreatedBy: Company: ExampleCodeInspect (contact@ECI.com)
CreatedBy: Tool: LicenseFInd-1.0</code></pre></p>
</div>

<div about='http://spdx.org/ont#Created' typeof='http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#DatatypeProperty'>
  <h4 property='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#label'>Created</h4>

  <p>Purpose: <span property='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#comment'>Identify when the analysis was done and the SPDX file was originally created. This is to be specified according to combined data and time in UTC format as specified in ISO 8601 standard.</span></p>
  
  <p>Intent: Here, the Time Stamp can serve as a verification as to whether the analysis needs to be updated.</p>

  <p>Domain: <a rel='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#domain' href='http://spdx.org/ont#SPDXDocument'>SPDXDocument</a></p>

  <p>Range: <a rel='http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#range' href='http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#string'>xsd:string</a></p>

  <p about='http://spdx.org/ont#Created' typeof='http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#FunctionalProperty'>Cardinality: Mandatory, single instance.</p>

  <p>Data Format: YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ where: YYYY is year, MM is month with leading zero, DD is day with leading zero, T is delimiter for time, hh is hours with leading zero in 24 hour time, mm is minutes with leading zero, ss is seconds with leading zero, and Z is universal time indicator.</p>

  <p>Example: 
    <pre><code>Created: 2010-01-29T18:30:22Z</code></pre></p>

</div>

</body>
</html>
